Package updates - June 2023 (#19)
bellroy/wai-handler-hal: README.md

  application that deploys an API backed by `wai-handler-hal-example`.

## Developing

Instead of serving your application with something like
[`warp`](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/warp), you will set up an
executable that serves your application with
[`hal`](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/hal). The necessary glue
code looks something like this:

```haskell
import AWS.Lambda.Runtime (mRuntime)
import Network.Wai (Application)
import qualified Network.Wai.Handler.Hal as WaiHandler

app :: Application
app = undefined -- From Servant or wherever else

main :: IO ()
main = mRuntime $ WaiHandler.run app
```

### Local testing

Compiled Lambda functions can be awkward to test, especially if you're
relying on an API Gateway integration to translate HTTP
requests. Consider defining a second executable target that serves
your `Application` using `warp`, which you can use for local
testing.

### Caveats

* The Lambda is never told the port that the API Gateway is listening
  on. Most APIs will listen on `443` (HTTPS), so that's what's in this
  example.

* The Lambda is never told the HTTP version that the client uses when

>   talking with the API Gateway. We assume HTTP 1.1.

Reviewer: This is all still true, right? Should we keep it?

Author: I think the Caveats sections probably belongs in `wai-handler-example` instead, but otherwise yes

Author: Never mind, it's just referencing the example code above

Reviewer: The caveats section is actually about limitations of the library itself, so if that's unclear I'd love to see it reworded.

container images using `nix build`, so a container-based deployment
using CDK would need to push to ECR first and then reference the image
by name.

### `.zip` files

You will need to create a `.zip` file containing ([at
least](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/runtimes-custom.html#runtimes-custom-build))
an executable named `bootstrap`. This executable needs to run in
Amazon's runtime environment, and there are multiple ways to ensure
this.

#### Static linking

IOHK's [`haskell.nix`](https://github.com/input-output-hk/haskell.nix)
can build static Haskell binaries by cross-compiling against musl
libc. This is convenient, but consider copyleft implications (of
`libgmp`; `wai-handler-hal` is BSD-3-Clause) if you are distributing
the binaries to other people.

#### Dynamic linking

The other option is to compile the executable in an environment with
packages that match the [Lambda runtime
environment](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-runtimes.html). Some
ideas:

* Build the executable in an "imitation environment" like the [`lambci/lambda`](https://hub.docker.com/r/lambci/lambda) Docker container; or

> * (Untested) build the executable on an Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance.

Reviewer: Much of this is still relevant for people learning to write Lambda Functions in Haskell — can we keep it and remove/clarify the references to the example projects?

nice feature of these images is that they provide a [runtime interface
emulator](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/images-test.html#images-test-AWSbase),
which they fall back to when not running "for real". This makes it
possible to directly invoke the lambda and see how it behaves. (This
is less important here because we can serve our application off
`warp`, but for writing Lambdas not invoked by an API Gateway Proxy
Integration, it's handy.)

At the time of writing (2021-04-06), the
`amazon/aws-lambda-provided:al2` (Amazon Linux 2 tag) is the newest
base image that Amazon recommends for custom runtimes. You can use a
`Dockerfile` to build your images, but there are commented `.nix`
files in `wai-handler-hal-cdk/runtime` that show different ways of
building containers using `nixpkgs`'
[`dockerTools.buildImage`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixpkgs/stable/#ssec-pkgs-dockerTools-buildImage):

* `container.nix` builds a container by copying the static bootstrap
  executable into the `amazon/aws-lambda-provided:al2` image; and
* `tiny-container.nix` constructs a minimal container from scratch,

>   fetching the emulator from Amazon's GitHub.

Reviewer: We could keep most of this section, but remove discussion of the specific `.nix` example files and instead say something like "there are commented `.nix` files in the \[example repository\](link), showing a couple of different approaches to building container images using Nix.

## Integrating

Actually calling the Lambda is done with a [Lambda proxy
integration](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/set-up-lambda-proxy-integrations.html)
from an [API Gateway REST
API](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-rest-api.html).

The simplest possible integration sends every request to the Lambda
(where the `wai` `Application` can return 404 or whatever if the
endpoint doesn't match). This is done by mapping the paths `/` and
`/{proxy+}` for the HTTP method `ANY`. We do this in our CDK example,
and CDK provides a Construct which encapsulates this pattern, making

> it extremely simple to deploy.

Reviewer: Preserve this section, but either remove references to our example, or turn them into links?

the minimal set of permissions attached to their role. If your Servant
service had endpoints `foo`, `bar`, and `baz`, you'd serve them all
from Warp with an expression like `Warp.runEnv 8080 . Servant.serve $
foo :<|> bar :<|> baz`. But `Servant.serve foo`, `Servant.serve bar`,
and `Servant.serve baz` are also all WAI `Application`s, and can each
be bundled into distinct Lambda functions using `wai-handler-hal`.

### Other caveats

* The stage name in a path segment is not passed to the Lambda, so it
  is not passed to the `wai` `Application`. An invoke URL like
  `https://abcde12345.execute-api.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/prod/hoot`
  will send `pathInfo = ["hoot"]` to the `Application`.

## Formatters

The formatters used in this repo are provided by `shell.nix`:

* `*.hs`: [`ormolu`](https://github.com/tweag/ormolu)
* `*.cabal`:
  [`cabal-fmt`](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/cabal-fmt)
  (`cabal-fmt --inplace wai-handler-hal.cabal`)
* `*.nix`:
  [`nixpkgs-fmt`](https://github.com/nix-community/nixpkgs-fmt)
  (`nixpkgs-fmt *.nix`)

## Regenerate CI

This repo uses `haskell-ci`, which is provided by `shell.nix`:

```shell
haskell-ci regenerate

> ```

Reviewer: All of this seems worth preserving.

### Caveats

* The Lambda is never told the port that the API Gateway is listening

>   on. Most APIs will listen on `443` (HTTPS), so that's what's in the
>   above example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on. Most APIs will listen on `443` (HTTPS), so that's what the
  library reports by default. See `runWithContext` if you need to
  change this.
```

The simplest possible integration sends every request to the Lambda
(where the `wai` `Application` can return 404 or whatever if the
endpoint doesn't match). This is done by mapping the paths `/` and
`/{proxy+}` for the HTTP method `ANY`. We do this in our [CDK example](https://github.com/bellroy/wai-handler-hal-example/tree/master/wai-handler-hal-cdk),

> and CDK provides a Construct which encapsulates this pattern, making

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and [CDK provides a Construct](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-cdk-lib.aws_apigateway.LambdaRestApi.html) which encapsulates this pattern, making
```
